My number one bullet point is you're
going to make your money by writing a
trend for the very very [music] longest
time. Or you can be like Warren Buffett.
You can be one of those value investors
[music]
who won't spend a nickel. And I used to
just sit there and rail on Warren
Buffett year after year after year. And
he just happened to be in the right
place at the right time and caught this
bull market. I was just thinking, "Oh my
god, why couldn't I be Warren Buffett?
just believe in America and just went
you're down 50% who cares cuz America's
going to bring you through. Warren, if
you happen to hear this, I'm [laughter]
deeply apologetic.
You are the OG of compound interest.
There was something that we talked about
when we last met that made me laugh and
I thought it'd be a fun place to begin
our conversation today and it was about
the difference between being an investor
and being a trader and you mentioned
something basically saying you wished
you could be an investor. Life would be
so easy. [laughter]
I'd love you to describe the difference
between the two and the life of a
trader.
>> I promise I'll do that.
and we'll talk about markets and AI and
everything and at the end
>> I'll say were you not entertained
[laughter]
and I bet you'll say yes but of all the
things that you do on your podcast the
one that I think is the most important
if you don't mind I'd love to start with
that one which is that question you ask
everyone at the end
>> I'm in I love it
>> and the reason why is because um it's so
funny I gave this commencement address
one time to what is now Roads College in
Memphis. I remember when I was writing
it, I was in there thinking, damn, who
gave my commencement address? And I
couldn't remember. It was funny. No one
remembers. Can you remember who gave
your commencement? You're so young. You
might.
>> It was the president of Ireland at the
time. I went to Notre Dame. So,
>> and you're Irish, right? Okay.
But it was so funny because no one
remembers who gave their commencement
address because and I was sitting there
thinking, "God, I'm getting ready to do
this for 15 or 20 minutes and no one's
going to remember a damn thing. How do I
make it special?" Uh, and so on this
podcast, I'm assuming people listen to
millions of podcasts and they probably
can't really remember, but fractions of
them. So if there's anything they
remember from this, I hope I hope it's
this part.
>> All right. So, everyone that listens
knows that the question is, what is the
kindest thing that anyone's ever done
for you?
>> It's such a great question because the
kindest thing was also my very, very,
very first childhood memory. I was
probably two and a half or three.
It was probably 1957,
something like that. And I was with my
mother at this place called the Curb
Market. And uh I got separated from my
mother. And boy, you can imagine being 2
and 1/2 years old and separated from
your mother. You just it's it's you're
terror stricken. And this elderly
black gentleman came up and I was
sitting there balling my eyes out cuz I
thought my mother had left me and said,
"What's the matter, little boy?" And I
said, "I lost my mama." And he said,
"Here, don't you worry. we're going to
find her. And he grabbed my hand and we
started walking up and down the aisles.
It was a outdoor vegetable market. Uh,
and I can gosh, I can almost still smell
>> fruits and vegetables. We come around
the corner finally and I see my mother
and I was [snorts] so happy and my
mother
saw me and at first she just started
laughing and I remember her, she was
laughing so hard. So she comes and she
gets me and she says to that man, she
tries to give him $5, which was in 1957,
a huge amount of money. And he said,
"No, ma'am. I know you'd do that for my
child, too." And it was such a simple
act of kindness, but it was so profound
to me at the time. So that night, I had
a prayer list with my mother that she
used to go through with me every night.
So it be God bless Mama, daddy, Peter,
Paul, Alberta, Grande, Pete, and Judy
Lyn, and Sid. And then we added my
mother. I said, "What was that man's
name?" She goes, "I never got his name."
For the next 10 to 12 years, right in
that prayer list would be that man. So
probably four or 5,000 reps.
>> Wow.
>> Every night for that man.
Now, fast forward
to 19
86. I'm living in New York City and I'm
lying on my couch, 32 years old, and I'm
watching 60 Minutes, and Harry Reer is
interviewing this guy, Eugene Lang. And
Eugene Lang was a businessman who had
gone back to give the commencement
address to his elementary school up in
Harlem which over the course of the
intervening 60 years had completely
transformed from a gentrified area into
a African-American Hispanic community
with almost a population entirely
consisting of people of color.
And Jean asked the principal, "How many
of these kids, these 12 year olds are
going to go to college?" The guy said,
"M statistically, maybe I don't know,
eight or nine%, something like that." He
could not believe that because obviously
he had graduated from that school, gone
on to college, and then done very well.
So right there on the spot, he decided,
I'm going to promise every one of those
kids, if they graduate from high school,
I'll put them through college. And that
resonated with me so much and he adopted
that class and he created something
called the I have a dream program. I
said I can do that. I can do that. And
the next day I called him up and he
said, "You know, it's funny. Three or
four other uh people have called me and
we're all meeting at my apartment on
Tuesday night. I got there late and I I
was seeing myself up in Harlem or
somewhere on the lower east side
Manhattan. I got Bedstey, the highest
crime crimeridden community in New York
at that time, even higher than the
Bronx. And that began this journey. I
put my heart and soul into it. I spent
about I'd go over there every Tuesday. I
went to the commencement address of this
elementary school, did the same thing
that he did, told them that they
graduate from high school, put them
through college. Of course, everybody
was jubilant, right? It was a big
surprise that parents were so happy.
That began this big journey for really
the next 14 years because I kept
adopting success in classes. I had
tremendous passion. We were doing after
school programs. We're playing sports,
teaching life skills. About 3 years in,
I realized these kids aren't doing that
great now. They'd gone on to different
junior highs. They're not doing that
great. So, I started hiring some tutors.
figured that out. And then probably four
years in, I've had one kid who got
killed. I had a a bunch of girls become
teenage moms. So now all of a sudden,
I'm dealing not just with the academic
challenges, but also with the social
challenges to boot, of which there are
many. Along the way, I learned so much
by failing. I learned so much about what
it takes to actually beat poverty. And
by the way, 1987, the year after that
was when Robin Hood started. And then
that informed
me through certainly was extraordinarily
instructive. And as we built Robin Hood
out and began applying metrics and
making sure we had goals and standards
and a variety of things, it also led me
ultimately to start one of the first
charter schools in the late ' 90s in
Bedstey right next to that spot.
Actually, I started a charter school
called the Bedstey Charter School of
Excellence. The first one started out as
an all boy school. We named it
excellence because I wanted these boys
to know that we were going to demand
excellence of them. And we completely
totally crushed it. We had hired the
absolutely dream team of educators to do
it. And within about four or five years,
we were number one out of 543 elementary
schools in New York City. The point
being that you can have all the passion
in the world, but you have to have a
plan. There has to be a great pedagogy
in what it is that you're trying to do
when educating a kid. Why is all this
relevant? Well, just think about this.
So,
here was this one simple act of kindness
of this elderly man helping this young
child. In that case, a black man helping
this young white boy. And so when I saw
Harry Reezner and I saw that elderly man
helping those young kids, it was the
photo negative of what had happened to
me and I thought, "Wow, it just was
instinctive." The point here is that one
simple act of kindness
can have waves of betterment. It can be
so transformative and so multiplicative.
There's no doubt in my mind that 4,000
reps of thanking that elderly man to
help me as a child inspired me when I
saw Harry Rezner interviewing Jean Lang
to emulate that in a sense. I keep
thinking
how instructive it would be if
intentionally
we just all start every day with a goal
of one simple act of kindness. It
doesn't have to be anything big. It can
be as something as small as what
happened to me when I was three. And
look at the possibilities that come from
it. Just imagine if 350 million
Americans intentionally sat out every
day for one simple act of kindness. What
I will say, particularly the young
people that might be listening to this,
I'll tell you before 2000, I would say
2000 was kind of the turning point. all
this demonization and criticism and and
the attack mode that we seem to be in
this, it didn't exist. It's not the way,
by the way, that this generation that's
perpetrating it and promoting it was
raised. It's not the way we were raised.
It's not the way of the 70s, 80s, 90s,
you didn't have these vitriolic attacks.
>> There was a much higher level of
civility and respect. And I think down
the road we'll get back to it. Um but so
I would just say to young people, you
don't have to accept today as what this
country historically has been about
because it wasn't that way uh when I
grow up. C certainly grew up. It
certainly wasn't that way and it's not
going to be that way in the future.
>> Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. RAMP understands that no
[music] one wants to spend hours filing
expense reports, reviewing expense
reports, and checking for policy
violations. [music] So, they built their
tools to give that time back using AI to
automate 85% of expense reviews with 99%
accuracy. And since RAMP saves companies
5%, [music]
it's no wonder that Shopify runs on RAM,
Stripe runs on RAM, and my business
does, too. To see what happens when you
eliminate the busy work, check out
ramp.com/invest. [music]
OpenAI, Cursor, Enthropic, Perplexity,
and Verscell all have something in
common. They all use Work OS. And here's
why. To achieve enterprise adoption at
scale, you have to deliver on core
capabilities like SSO, [music]
SKIM, Arbback, and audit logs. That's
where Work OS comes in. Instead of
spending months building these
missionritical capabilities yourself,
you can just use Work OS APIs to gain
all of them on day zero. That's why so
many of the top AI teams you hear about
already run on Work OS. Work OS is the
fastest way to become enterprise ready
and stay focused on what matters most,
your product. Visit works.com to get
started. Felix by Rogo is a personal
finance agent that turns a single prompt
into finished client ready work using
your firm's own templates, context, and
[music] standards. Send Felix an email
like, "Take these comments and turn them
for me, or update my tracker with the
context of these emails, or run the
ability to pay math on this buyer." And
Felix sends back finished PowerPoint
decks, Excel models, and sourced
research. Felix works the way your team
already does, delivering work quickly
and accurately around the clock. Learn
more at rogo.ai/felix.
>> Absolutely incredible story. Maybe my
favorite version of this answer that
I've ever had. First time I've ever done
at the beginning of the episode, which
makes it fun, too. What was your message
in the commencement speech that you
ultimately gave? What did you decide was
the message to leave them with? So I got
up there and I looked on the the deis
and I said, "How many of you there's
like 20 people over 50 or 60. How many
of you remember your college
commencement address?" None of them. Not
one of them could remember. I love to
hunt and fish. So I go through and I
talk about just kind of the the normal
challenges they're going to face in
life. And uh and I also talked about how
[clears throat]
going through this process, I wanted to
make sure I was going to say something
that was memorable. So right there at
the end, I said, "So whatever you do,"
and I pulled out my bow
and and I knocked an arrow. I said, "So
whatever you do,
[clears throat] aim high and shoot
straight." When I when I went like this,
the whole crowd goes, "Woo!
[laughter]
Aim high and shoot straight." And I had
an apple on a table over here and
smashed it.
>> Knocked it.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> So, I don't know whether they still
remember or not, but I know when
everybody was ducking, I thought, "Oh,
they're going to remember that." I told
the president of university, I said,
"Listen, you don't have to tackle me or
anything like that." Okay? This is part
of it. I'm just trying to, you know,
trying to let these people have a night
that they they'll remember for some
time. And it's an excuse for me to ask
my other question about this difference
between investing and trading. So I'd
love you to explain the life of a trader
in contrast to that of an investor.
>> If I just think about
when I started, I started in 1976.
Inflation was raging. I started on the
floor of uh the commodity pits. Stuff
was literally going up and doubling and
cutting in half every year. The
volatility was insane. To give you an
example of how crazy
things got, Bunker Hunt
was squeezing silver at the time and he
bought about 200 million ounces at an
average price of about three 12 bucks.
And between 1976 and 1980, we had crazy
monetary policy. Inflation started
ripping and silver went literally
through the roof. Ultimately, I started
out in the floor of the cot exchange. I
bought a membership on COMX, which was
the metals exchange at that time. I got
in the pit and was executing some orders
for them sometimes along the way.
[clears throat] And the bottom line was
it was just this the most amazing bull
run. And I want to say by like 79,
silver was around 30 bucks an ounce. And
all of a sudden he was worth about five
or six billion which made him worth
three times the next closest person in
the world. Bunker says, "Well,
I think I think this silver here is the
most valuable asset and resource on
earth." Someone asked him, "What are you
going to do with all that silver?" And
he goes, "I'm going to bury it. I'm
going to [laughter] bury it. In fact,
what I'm going to do is I'm going to buy
20 million more ounces and I'm going to
bury that, too." So he buys 20 million
ounces at 35 bucks. And when that
happened,
it [laughter] just
it just roofed, right? Well, it goes to
50 bucks. So at 50 bucks now,
he's worth about 11 billion and he's got
a multiple of five or six on the next
closest guy. I just couldn't even
believe what I'd seen and how much money
that this guy had made. Anyway,
so that was when COMX decided the
commercials had been just eradicated
because they're sitting there holding
physicals and having to put up this
margin every day and their bankers
going, "Yeah, I can't do it." So anyway,
they made liquidation only. Silver
collapsed. It went from 50 bucks to
under 10 bucks in the space of about
eight weeks. And that had a searing
impact on me to see him go from the
richest guy to virtually bankrupt in the
short space of six or seven weeks. Right
then and there, I would never own
anything for the or trust anything for
the rest of my life. You know, again, my
my grandfather when I was when I was
really young said, "Son, you're only
worth what you can write a check for
tomorrow." That also had a a really deep
impression on me. Um, so liquidity has
always been something that's been it was
in my DNA as a child because that was my
grandfather's favorite saying all the
time. And then also just my early
trading days cuz my early trading days
had $10,000 account. I'd run that thing
to a hundred, run it back down to zero.
And also living in my early 20s, um I
had this friend, he's such a character,
he could take 2500 bucks or five grand
and run it to 2 million. Of course, the
market moves in were crazy like no one
I'd ever seen. We were brokers at that
time at EF Hutton. And we called him a
mortician cuz he'd get an account
[laughter]
with 10,000, churn about $100,000
commissions, take it to a million bucks,
and then have it in deficit. So you
learned that liquidity was really
important because the volatility was so
huge and we're all living on the edge.
But so that had a real impact on me. The
idea of owning something for the long
run was laughable because look how much
money you could make by trading in the
short run because uh the volatility
profile was off the chart. One of my
mentors who got me into trading was
teaching a class on investments in
Virginia and asked me to come be a guest
lecturer and I started in ' 82 and I've
been doing it every semester since. I
remember one of my favorite stories to
tell that class is I would go through
how all the greatest fortunes in the
world were made. I'd always ask him
who's the richest guy in the world and
back then it was Bill Gates and Warren
Buffett. How did they get there? And my
point to them would be they got there by
writing a trend for the long run. And
that would be my big lesson to them. I'd
always have two or three bullet points.
My number one bullet point is you're
going to make your money by writing a
trend for the very very longest time. I
said there are many different ways to
achieve it. You can own a company like
Bill Gates or Steve Jobs, whatever. Or
you can be like Warren Buffett. You can
be one of those value investors who
won't spend a nickel. And I used to just
sit there and rail on Warren Buffett
year after year after year. And I would
self- congratulate myself for trashing
because goes, you know, he just happened
to be in the right place at the right
time and caught this bull market. If
that guy had been in Japan, forget it.
Never would have happened. If it started
1989 in the Nikki, forget it. It never
would have happened. Different story.
Right place, right time. Bull market
genius.
>> Oh yeah. I guess this will be my my 50th
year. And the difference between
my trading and investing is I just take
uh our fund which uh BBI fund for 40
years it has a minus.12
correlation with the S&P 500. So you can
see the difference between investing and
trading. So 100% of our returns are
alpha 100%. And and I was just thinking,
"Oh my god, why couldn't I be Warren
Buffett? Just believe in America." And
just went, "When you're down 50%, who
cares? Cuz America's going to bring you
through." and you just get and not that
he doesn't he works as hard as any human
being but it's that belief system that's
so fantastic as opposed to I feel like
I'm like a right guard
>> and I've been but a right guard in the
NFL for 50 years where I'm just every
day just fighting in the freaking
trenches every day and every time
someone says to me gee I want to go into
trading I said go along short go on the
equity side go do And I just I've always
envied that belief system. It's such a
great belief system and it's worked so
well for so long. But I would have huge
difficulty
uh
to have been in Warren's shoes in 2008 9
have a 50% draw down. It would have it
would have had uh a really material
impact on me. I don't think I have his
calm and patience and fortitude to to be
able to do what he does.
And so anyway, I was listening
to the Acquired podcast on Birkshire
Hathway and for the first time I learned
that at 9 years old, 9 years old, he
understood the power of compound
interest. And actually when I listened
to that podcast, I just went, "Oh my
god, this guy is a genius and I have
been the biggest [laughter]
fool." I've always wanted to write a a
book called What I Realize Now, which
will go through the successive mistakes
of beliefs that I've had my lifetime.
What I realize now is what an idiot I
was. That guy is a flipping genius cuz
he understood the power of compound
interest which I somehow managed
brilliantly to avoid my entire career.
He understood it at nine. He went out 17
went to Colombia and sought out Benjamin
Graham. What a genius.
>> Now the great thing from that podcast is
that he was also so smart that he
partnered with Charlie Mer. Charlie was
clearly clearly um a tremendous genius
in his own right because whereas Warren
would buy 50 cent dollars, right?
Charlie understood the power of
compounding for companies that were
growing all the time. And I think the
two of them together, man, what a
combination. But anyway, if Warren, if
you happen to hear this, I'm deeply
apologetic.
You are the OG of compound interest and
I wish I was onetenth as as smart as you
are.
>> Didn't you didn't you talk to him about
what he thought about AI soon thereafter
when we first talked about what was that
conversation like?
>> You cannot be a trader investor whatever
term we use and not be a really good
risk manager. Anyone that's really
succeeded investing or trading is first
and foremost a great risk manager. I
went to uh this this conference about 18
months ago and I just was so alarmed by
what I heard and then I mentioned on
CNBC and he watches CNBC every day and
sent me a note and said I agree with you
100% but the genie's out of the bottle.
I don't know if we can get it back in. I
think he's completely on board with the
belief that we have some real threats
from AI. The problem with AI is that the
the news I I don't like in the last 12
hours the the news that keeps coming out
is just more disturbing. The biggest
problem with AI is that if you think
about the the way AI is being deployed,
practiced and deployed right now is the
it's the build break iterate model.
Build it, break it,
fix it and iterate. If you think about
it, that's been the invention model
since the beginning of man. Build,
break, iterate. But we've never been in
a situation where the tail event
>> the break can do so much damage
>> could could be hundreds of millions if
not billions of lives. What's so scary
when I was at this conference which is
only about 35 or 40 people with one
modeler from the four biggest model
companies and when I was able to ask
them pointedly how do you think that AI
safety gets resolved the pretty much the
consensus answer is I think we'll
finally do something about it when 50 or
100 million people die in an accident. I
mean it's crazy. My big problems with AI
are that one,
there's no plebicide on this. There's no
vote.
There's no way for the public to say yay
or nay on the pace at which we're going.
And that's the way that most innovation
occurs. Again, this one has a tail event
on it that's so large. I go back to when
the nuclear bomb was dropped 18 months
later. our Congress and our uh
administration was smart enough and
forward thinking to create the Atomic
Energy Commission to begin to try to
regulate something that had huge tales.
Here we are, we're three years in and
regulate, what are you talking about? If
there ever was a leadership position
that needs to be taken by any any uh
president, it's on AI regulation right
now, not just the United States, but
convening with China, with all the other
our pre purveyors are to make sure that
we don't do something that has
catastrophic consequences. And that's
just on the safety side, not even what's
going to happen to social disruption.
Matt Schumer came out with a very
lengthy essay on how the two new models
that were released six days ago
>> are going to be so unbelievably d
disruptive to the workforce. So you just
the news in my mind keeps getting more
alarming. If this was I can tell you if
this was anything to do uh inside tutor
which this thing would have been so
contained so long ago. I mean that's
what a good risk manager does and yet
there's zero risk management here.
>> Your point about great investors and
traders are great risk managers in the
face of AI. How do you think about this
exogenous variable lurking?
>> The one thing that I think should be
part of this next election the simplest
most important thing that we can do is
we can demand that all AI is
watermarked.
That's the single most transformative
thing that we could possibly do for the
country, for the world. Make it a felony
if someone knowingly violates that three
times and put them in jail. I want to
know what's authentically human and
what's not. And when that happens, talk
about restoring trust in the country,
which I think is one of the biggest
problems.
I would say two times since this year
began, I've had very serious people call
and say, "Did you see XYZ?"
>> And of course, it turned out to be a
deep fake. I think just so we can get
back to some some truth and honor and
normal discourse. I think we've got to
do that. The and the reason why it's so
important is if I go back to that
conference 18 months ago, I would say a
significant portion of the scientists
there envision a future where humanity
is going to have a chip in our brain
that's going to allow us to access so
much knowledge, power, etc. So, I'm just
kind of looking down the road and
thinking, okay, we really need to know
what we're reading, what we're looking
at, because
again, that group without having any
feedback from the rest of America thinks
that a blended human with a machine is
perfectly acceptable, is the future,
should have inalienable rights. For me,
I I don't think that's the case. I'd
vote no. I think most humans would vote
no.
>> So, coming back to some of these themes
of investor versus trader, risk
management, etc., I know you learned a
lot from this guy, Eli Tullis. And I I
love these lessons that were formative
for you for what became, you know, the
trading legend that that you now are.
What did he teach you? And was there any
specific episode from your time with him
that taught you the biggest or most
important lesson?
>> God, he was so strong. He was really
good at executing
at the maximum apogee fear as well as uh
greed. He was so good at smelling that
because he traded hardly anything but
cotton. He would just sit there and he
would just focus and he could just he
was just so good at waiting for exactly
when there was just too much elation or
when there was too much fear. And so
that was really helpful. And then
I would say the number one thing I
learned from him was
uh oh we were so long cotton one weekend
and uh there was a great drought,
spectacular drought and of course it
rained all through the belt over the
weekend. Walk in market was limit down.
He'd gotten absolutely smashed. I
thought, "Oh my god, it's over." That
day for lunch, his wife brought in four
of her friends. He had the most
beautiful office I've ever seen in my
life. And he came out and just, oh my
god, he had a smile on his face. Oh,
ladies and flirting with the wives. I
mean, I was in sitting there going, "Are
you kidding me? This guy's just broke
and he's acting like uh he's Rock Hudson
or something." Wow. Boy, I tell you
what, I'll never forget that one to this
day. When the going gets tough, the
tough get going. And you wear it here
and you have that confidence you're
going to come back. Hugely important.
>> Feels like the right time to ask you
just what trading means to you. You've
said before that the whole world is just
this interconnected series of capital
flows and part of the job is being on
top of that and taking positions based
on what's going on in the world. But
mostly I interview investors who buy
stakes in companies. I very rarely
interview someone that is moving and
putting on major positions in any sort
of asset class or or trading instrument.
And so I would love to just hear you
describe like what to you trading is
like what is the literal act that you
are doing every day with such excellence
for decades.
>> There's a couple of metaphors that come
to mind. Well, let's start with boxing
because you have an opponent. In this
case, it's the market. You know, you're
going into
uh
the ring with this opponent who's after
you the whole time. And I'm thinking
more of a classic one as opposed to a
Mike Tyson one. But you're kind of
pairing, jabbing,
feeling each other out, looking for an
opening. And then every now and then
you'll have a great opening and you take
a big shot and you may land one. If I
think about big shots, just Bitcoin
2020, a knockout. Two-year rates 2022
knockout. You have these incredible
opportunities at times if you just sit
and wait the whole time in the interim.
Some of it you're just gathering
information looking for those openings.
You're always trying to make progress.
You're always trying to win the round,
but there'll be those few opportunities
where you can do something really
material.
>> I love the boxing analogy in the
examples you gave. Bitcoin to your
raids, precious metals, so many things
you've been through. What is going on in
one of those? like maybe pick one and
I'm literally curious what you are doing
in the moments, what you're looking at,
what you're studying, what supply demand
imbalances you see like what what is the
literal nature of one of these windows
that opens every so often. If you think
about all the really big moves,
it's probably because uh the market has
gotten too carried away or there's been
some imbalance that's gone on for too
long or a central bank does something
that they shouldn't be doing or a
government does something they shouldn't
be doing. So that's I think the genesis
of most of the big moves. Typically,
it's going to be inspired by central
bank or central government. A good one
right now in the making that's going to
be interesting, I think, is is dollar
yen. The yen's grossly undervalued. Has
been for some time. What's the catalytic
moment? That's really the the point
you've got to ask. What's the catalytic
moment? And that catalytic moment was
this new president that was just a new
prime minister that was just elected.
She has all the characteristics of a
Ronald Reagan or a Margaret Thatcher or
Donald Trump when he got elected um the
second time. And if you look at what
those local currencies did, they all
appreciated pretty quickly 10% off the
bat. I want to say Japan has $4.5
trillion dollars. Uh a $4 and half
trillion dollar net international
investment position to the good with the
rest of the world. Probably 60% of
that's in the US and most of that is
unhedged. So they just have this massive
dollar liability. And all of a sudden,
we've now got the most dynamic leader in
certainly a half a century in Japan
who's Japan first is going to have a
very uh entrepreneurial way that she is
going to remake that economy. So, you're
looking for something that's underowned,
undervalued, way out of whack.
>> Yeah.
>> People have gotten complacent on it and
you're looking for that catalytic
moment. In the case of the two-year
rates in 22,
um,
we we had way too much fiscal stimulus.
And then pal, he overstayed being easy
way too long because he wanted Biden to
reappoint him.
>> So, as soon as Biden reappointed him, it
was go time to get short two-year notes
because you knew the Fed was going to
normalize. And then in 2020 when you saw
again all the interventions both the
central bank and the treasury um you
just knew that the inflation trades were
going to take off and what was of all of
them what was the best one at that point
in time it was Bitcoin. Bitcoin is
unequivocally
the best inflation hedge that there is
more than gold because Bitcoin is
finite.
There's only so much Bitcoin that can be
mined. The problem with it is inflation
hedge is if you got into kinetic
exchange, there's clearly going to be
cyber warfare and anything that you have
to deal with electronically is going
down, including Bitcoin. So, strike one.
And then secondly, quantum computing.
Who knows if and when with AI advancing
as fast as it is that we may actually
have quantum computing. Now quantum
computing, someone can come in and can
hack any bank and hack anything they
want to. So in terms of it being a great
inflation hedge, gold increasing supply
every year by by a couple of percent.
Bitcoin there's a finite amount that can
be mined. It's decentralized. And so in
that sense it's has the greatest
scarcity value of anything.
>> If you think about the big ones that
you've lived through 87,
you know, the global financial crisis,
COVID, etc. Uh various bubbles, asset
bubbles through history. Maybe say a
little bit about those general
experiences. You're very famous for what
happened in 1987, of course. And and I'm
curious about those ones because I'm
curious what you think about today's
environment. Are we in a bubble is a
very popular question. mostly that's
answered by investors, less so by
traders. And so I I would love your
perspective on the big ones you've
experienced historically and how those
lessons apply to today.
>> If I think of some really really big
accidents, most of them have the same
underlying reason, same underlying
foundation, which is some too much
leverage somewhere. Most of the leverage
most of the time if I think of the big
ones
were uh derivative inspired either
futures or options. 1987 that crash was
100% portfolio insurance 100%. Had they
had limits which they didn't it would
have been a 10% maybe 15% max but that
was 100% derivatives. If I think about
1998, long-term capital, big
derivatives, they had a huge balance
sheet with a lot of derivatives they
were off sides on.
2000 was a little different. 2000 was
the easiest bare market I've ever seen
my whole life. It's got so many
similarities to right now in the sense
that the bare market of 2001 and 2002
were a consequence
of all the IPOs in 99 2000 and then as
they unlocked
uh you just had this neverending
>> cascade of selling
>> cascade of selling that's a great way of
putting it and we're getting ready I I
want to say that the the the
contemplated IPOs in the next year are
going to be five [snorts] 6% of market
cap. So why are we where we are right
now? Because we've been retiring 2 or 3%
of market cap, probably led a little
less than 2% market cap every year
without fail for the past 10 years
>> through buybacks and things like this
>> through buybacks.
>> And so now all of a sudden you're going
to completely reverse that math.
>> And so I don't think it's necessarily
happens instantaneously with the IPOs,
but then there'll be the unlocks. So you
could see a situation where okay, maybe
go through some kind of rolling top and
then 18 months from now, six months,
we'll have to look at the buyback, the
the unlock schedule, but you're going to
want to watch those because that'll just
be adding equity supply and you've
already going to be diminishing the
buybacks because of all the commitment
to capex from the hyperscalers. They're
already going to be eating into their
cash flow. So, I think that's why tech
has dogged it and why it will continue
to dog it because all the funding, much
of the funding for these IPOs is going
to it's going to come out of existing
tech stocks. When you say are we in a
bubble, I don't know if we're
necessarily in a bubble. We're clearly
so
leveraged in equities in this country.
We're so
dependent upon firm equity prices at
this point in time. And when I say
leveraged, we're 252%
of stock market cap to GDP. So 1929
we were I think at the top we were 65%.
And then in 87 we got to about 85 or
90%. Then 2000 we got to 170% and now
we're at 252. So you can just imagine
if you think about the periodicity of
significant bare markets
since 1970, we get kind of a mean
reversion about on average every 10
years. When I say mean reversion, let's
say mean revert to the past 25 or 30
year PE. So if we did that here that
would be and again these are elevated
peas way elevated be uh beyond the 20th
century that would be a say a 30 35%
decline well 35% on 250% of GDP is 80
90% of GDP the reverse wealth effect oh
my gosh 10% of our tax revenues or
capital gains they go to zero so you can
see the budget deficit blowing up you
see the bond market getting smoked, you
can see this kind of negative
self-reinforcing
effect. And so it's troubling.
>> It's troubling. So, are we in a bubble?
We're we're clearly in a sovereign debt
bubble. Uh in the stock market, we're
over equitized as a country, have the
highest individual equity waitings in
the history of the country. And then the
real problem is is that we're also if
you look at private equity in 2007208
that was about 7% of institutional
portfolios. Now it's about 16% of
institutional portfolios. Real estate's
gone up. Infrastructure bets have gone
up. We're so much more liquid than we
were in 2008. So you have to be
cognizant of that fact when you think
about how you have your money deployed.
I had a friend ask me, he was a wealth
manager and he hates hedge fund because
of the fees. He just says, "We just need
to put money in the S&P 500." He said,
"If you were investing for 20 years,
what would you tell somebody?"
And because he knows that I'm supposed
to say, "I'm you just buy the S&P, close
your eyes." Well, the problem is that if
you buy the S&P at this current
valuation, the 10-year returns negative
when you buy with the S&P P of 22.
That's what history shows. So yes, the
S&P is a spectacular long-term if you
have a 100redyear view, but that's
because
that's an average of a 100 years,
including times when the S&P 500 PE was
six and seven and eight or oneird of
what it is right now. So valuation
matters a lot and the stock market's
really high and it's going to be really
hard to make money from here. I think
with any kind of long-term view,
>> if I came and shadowed you on a given
day today, how does it go? What are you
doing? What does a day look like today?
I I know you have a system that you can
be heard by all times by your execution
traders. I know it's intense, but just
like walk us through a a day in the
life. I get up at say 6:15. I work till
7 o'clock. I go work out till 7:45. I
try to do 45 minutes of hard cardio
every day. I get in front of the screens
for the opening. I typically won't have
any meetings till um 10:00 and then I'll
probably do meetings till about 12:00.
typically have lunch with someone, have
a meeting after lunch, try to make sure
that I'm I've got an hour before the
close and an hour after the close to be
able to map out
>> what I want to do the next day because
again, I want to have a plan. Uh, as
well as think what's going to happen
that night in Tokyo, Hong Kong.
I'll go home around 5. Um, walk with my
wife for an hour. Uh, go up work for an
hour, come back down and eat. I'll
normally watch the news and the most
mindless entertainment
>> that I possibly I used to read a book
and a half a week and then once the
internet came, forget it. I I'm so tired
of reading by nighttime. I've read one
uh one book in the last year, which is
going to be, by the way, I recommend
everyone read it. It's David Wood. He's
a kind of a newsletter writer, but he he
has written what's going to be a
spectacular bestseller on globalization
markets. It's fantastic, and I'll bet
you gets made a Netflix series. I bet
you it's going to be uh a a banger.
Anyway, I'll try to watch something on
Netflix. Then I'll work from say 9:30 to
10:15 and then uh go to bed. Then I'll
wake up at
>> 6:15 and do it.
>> No, no, no. I'll wake up at probably
2:30 or 3:00 and I'll work for half an
hour, watch London open for 45 minute,
half an hour and I'll do a lot of
analytical work. Then it's a quiet time.
It's good. Then I'll go back to sleep
and wake up at 6:15.
>> Wow. And you've been doing that for 50
years. I've been doing that for I'm
probably doing that uh yeah, I've been
doing that for certainly since the 80s.
I feel like I work so much harder than I
did uh 40 years ago, 30 years ago
>> because there's more information.
>> Oh my god, I get 800,000 emails a day.
If I think about when I was a pit
trader, I think about even the 80s when
there was so much less information. I
could spend more of my time intently
focusing
on what
the
highs and lows were going to be in the
day, which are really important for
execution. Doing what my boss Eli did,
just waiting, paying attention,
focusing. Are we at a point of maximum
pain? Is there so much fear right now,
which is a great time to buy? Is does it
look like it's going to go up forever? a
great time to sell. You You have to be
intentional to be able to pick those
points in a day. And when you're trading
25 different instruments, instrument by
instrument by instrument, a lot of times
they'll be correlated, sometimes they're
not. You have to be very intentional
about that. So if while you're doing
that there's 48 emails coming in at the
same time, all of which
>> could be actionable information. I think
today, for me at least, it's it's it's
just a lot lot harder, I think, because
the information overload distracts me
from exquisite execution.
>> What does that mean, exquisite
execution?
>> Am I buying when there's blood on the
ground? And am I selling when there's
complete elation? Let's take last Friday
where we had the largest down day in the
history of gold and silver. So,
you got to be you have to be paying
attention every minute because when you
have a 33% move in silver in one day,
you you just have to be so focused on
that day's activity, what you're going
to do that on the opening, what you're
going to do if the price moves through a
certain price that you weren't
anticipating that day. It gets back to
what I learned in in in bed stock. You
better have a plan.
>> You better have a plan ahead of time and
it better be self-executing and you
better have thought through that. And I
hear it from my other friends who are
macro trainers. They go, "God darn
[clears throat] it, I just feel like I'm
two hours late, three hours late,
>> and last Friday was a great example."
Can be so material. If I think about
what's required to do that day in day
out, there's got to be just like an
enormous amount of passion for markets
and what you do. Can you just talk about
the notion of finding nurturing the
importance of passion in a life's work?
>> And it's so funny when you when we talk
about traders, great traders, and again
I'm talking about people who are alpha
generators, not investing. We had a
dinner about I guess it was a year ago
Christmas and I had four or five of my
best risktakers at dinner and we had the
debate is is uh a great traders born or
made. I'd say it was unanimous agreement
at the table that 70% of it is
uh is nature and when I say born with it
by the time I was 21 I had play I I
loved games I I love chess back gammon
parti monopoly
uh battle um gin ramy you name it I
played it then I started gambling in
college I had a degree in probability
theory
and had never taken a math course on it,
but I knew it. I was such a game fanatic
and I loved it so much. If I had to pick
out the the number one traits, type A
personality,
incredibly curious and inquisitive,
uh, and loves loves competition, loves
games because again, the whole our whole
business is just another form of
probability theory. And I still I still
love today. I play bridge with my
friends all the time. I can't get enough
of that. I love any kind of game of
chance. And I love trading. And the
other reason that I I love trading, I'll
never forget
my wife's Australian and we first got
married back in 1989. She said, "Well,
I know you guys live in New York, but I
came from the beach. So when our last
child graduates from college, you're
taking me to the beach. So sure enough,
my son turns 18, my fourth child, 2014,
we're going. So we ended up down here in
Palm Beach. She gives me a GP. The GP, a
general practitioner. So she makes me go
in. I see the guy and uh this guy's 83
years old. And I say to him, "You're
living here in the land of the walking
dead. Everyone here is basically
fossilized. Um, what is the secret to
longevity?" And he goes, "It's real
simple. You retire, you die."
And that [clears throat] had a really
profound impact on me because I realized
as I get older, and maybe when you get
older, you will too. Boy, you better. If
you don't use it, you're going to lose
it. And that's why I try to work out two
hours a day. And uh it's why another
reason that I enjoy trading is I want to
keep my mind sharp because there's too
many things that I want to do when I'm
my father lived to be 100 when I'm in my
90s that I want to do. So I think tra
trading is is great therapy for me too.
The other reason that I really enjoy
trading is I'd like to make an absolute
pot of money. [snorts] so I can give it
away. I got so many causes that I want
to give it to that I actually feel like
this is uh the pursuit of nobility.
>> So I enjoy I I feel it's a privilege to
wake up and I just hope I freaking kill
it
>> so I can give it away.
>> As your business scales up, everything
gets more complex, especially your
compliance and security needs. With so
many tools offering [music] band-aids
and patches, it's unfortunately far too
easy for something to slip through the
cracks. Fortunately, Vanta is a powerful
tool designed to simplify and automate
your security work and deliver a single
source of truth for compliance and risk.
There's a reason that Ramp, Cursor, and
Snowflake all use Vanta. It frees them
to focus on building amazing
differentiated products, knowing that
compliance and security are under
control. Learn more at vanta.com/invest.
I know firsthand how complex the tech
stack is for asset management firms. And
seemingly every new tool and data source
makes the problem even worse. Adding
more complexity, more headcount, and
more risk. Ridgeline offers a better way
forward. One unified platform that
automates away that that automates away
that complexity across portfolio
accounting, reconciliation, reporting,
trading, compliance, and more. All at
scale. Ridgeline is revolutionizing
investment management, helping ambitious
firms scale faster, operate smarter, and
stay ahead of the curve. See what
Ridgeline can unlock for your firm.
Schedule a demo at ridgeline.ai.
>> Can you tell us the story of starting
Robin Hood and what what you talked to
us earlier about the charter school work
and and everything in Bedstey. Robin
Hood started the year after. It's a
really important part of your life and
legacy.
>> Robin Hood happened the day after the
crash
and I I maybe the worst macro call of my
life was thinking we were going to go
into depression. I thought for sure I'd
been looking at the parallels in 1929
for a year. All of a sudden it happens.
I think oh my god this is a perfect
replay, a perfect analog.
So um I called up my friends and we
began it. It was just been the most
marvelous journey.
I can't recommend
anything more highly than uh getting
involved with some cause that you
believe in. The best part of
philanthropy and charitable giving is
the people you meet. Oh my gosh, I've
met the greatest, most wonderful, most
giving. It just brightens every aspect
of your life to be associated with the
best people who embody the best ideals.
Anyway,
we said we got to do something. So, the
only alternative at that there really
wasn't there really weren't any
charities focused on fighting poverty,
which I thought was going to be rampant
at the time.
So, um, I've always believed if you want
to do something, you're better off doing
it yourself. So, we started out very
small and we just applied basic business
principles to finding the most
efficacious way of
helping people in need. And again, along
the way, I'm learning. I'm learning by
doing. I'm making all these mistakes
along the way. uh and I'm learning so
much and then I realized boy this is
this is a science uh and then we just
started hiring the very best people that
we could uh as our staff and then
recruiting there was it was so easy to
recruit people from the financial world
to help the 90s were a special time
everyone wanted to participate and give
back and help I I don't know when it was
but my gosh we created so many fantastic
philanthropists in that era. In the 80s
it was completely different. Everyone
wanted to be associated with the
fillermonic and these are all great but
they wanted to be with the named social
charities. Uh and I'd say after the
crash everyone found their significance
by helping others. Maybe it was just
because that was when you really started
to accumulate these big fortunes,
individual fortunes for people and they
were just really really um wonderful
about wanting to give back and the whole
financial community supported Robin Hood
such a spectacular way. The whole hedge
fund community in New York, it was
really just it still is a joy. What if
you think about the whole broad world
feels the healthiest to you today about
the system that is the world where that
makes you the most optimistic and where
does it feel the most fragile?
>> I'm trying to fast forward
to the workless world to where AI does
so much for us that we don't have to
work. And I used to have a really
negative outlook on what that would be
like cuz if you think about it, so many
of us define our significance through
our work. Imagine a world where now the
significance that huge incredibly
important component of human happiness
is now taken away from us because of the
fact that we don't have to work. I used
to really despair about that because as
someone who works all the time and finds
my significant, what am I going to do?
But I've become more optimistic
recently because as I think through
um how athletes find significance in the
sports they do, how
I play bridge with my friends and find
so much significance in competing with
them. I think maybe humans are adaptable
enough that we'll find a different way
to find significance. Maybe it's going
to be in finding that intentional simple
act of kindness every day. I'm not sure
what it is, but I do think that as a
race, we're so unbelievably adaptable,
so smart that we might be able to find
out a way to find happiness. I think
that's going to be the biggest
challenge. potentially in four or five
years is what do we do when so many of
our jobs have been replaced by uh by AI?
>> So many young people are trying to
figure out what to do, what their
careers are going to be. You've talked
and written a lot about the power of
communication, like great communication.
It's like such an essential skill.
>> Journalism is an interesting, you know,
way of of learning that. Can you talk
just about that power as a as a message
to young people trying to figure it out
why they should maybe focus on that?
>> I have long maintained that better than
a business school degree. Journalism 101
should be mandatory subject in every
college which is newspaper writing in
particular. It was so important to my
development. So my father had a really
small trade finance legal paper in
Memphis 2500 person subscription. I
would be the the copy editor, the front
page editor and then I would write for
it and took journalism classes and what
newspaper writing does
is it teach teaches you you have to
write where the conclusion comes first.
So unlike writing something and then at
the end we get the story here the end
comes first and you have to write it
with this incredibly rigid discipline so
that every succeeding thing that you
write the most important part is in the
first sentence of the first paragraph.
The first paragraph is not more than two
sentences. Who, what, where, when, why
and how.
That's the first one. Then the next most
important thing that's the second
paragraph no more than two sentences.
The next one same thing. What is that
really? It's a principal component
analysis of taking whatever event may
have transpired and putting it in this
cogent way where the most important
stuff starts the beginning and you work
your way down through it. Particularly
where today's world the attention spans
are this short uh and time clearly is
money. You want to be able to
communicate in the quickest and most
concise fashion you can where you get
your entire point across in the shortest
amount of time. There's that old saying,
if you can't tell your story in 15
seconds or less, no one's going to
listen. And never been more true than
right now. Because again, if you're
getting a thousand emails a day, I want
to know in the first paragraph whether I
want to keep reading or not. As a macro
thinker, man, it helped me so much
>> frame every potential trading decision,
every single action. I could just again
very quickly because I had I had learned
how to do it do that principal component
analysis and hierarchialize the most
important things. And in trading
there there's so many different
variables that come into play. so many
different variables that come in in
making a trading decision. Let's say
that there's 10 really important things.
Every one of those will have its day.
It'll rotate through in terms of
importance. Again, the yen's a great
example. It's been completely
undervalued for the past 24 months, way
off sides.
It's so ripe to rally sharply, but it
needed a catalytic moment. And that
catalytic moment was this new president
that was just a new prime minister that
was just elected. So
if you take valuation which everyone's
ignored now for the past two years in
the end all of a sudden this moment
takes it from here and puts it at the
very top. So newspaper style hugely
important in developing any logic
framework. what's the most important
thing that's actionable at this second
in that particular instrument and what's
my checklist and how do I hierarchalize
and that's that's literally what trading
is all about.
>> If I were to ask you to do that on the
topic of the principal components of a
great life what would how would that
read?
>> God,
family,
friends.
When I think of friends, I think of fun.
So, God, family, friends, and fun,
service.
I mean, my significance uh is not going
to be from being a trader. I don't think
that's where my significance is going to
be. My significance is going to be um
first and foremost uh going to be my
family. every now and then like uh I
actually get joy out of thinking about
my funeral cuz I'm so excited about the
songs that I've chosen that'll be sung.
I almost wish I I wish I was going to be
alive for that cuz it's going to be such
a great time. I know my family and
friends will enjoy it. I'm thinking of
family because again, if I think about
the end of my life and I look back,
I'm not going to be thinking about the
87 crash or or Bitcoin. I'm going to be
thinking about who I loved and who loved
me. That's what I'm going to be thinking
about and what kind of relationships we
had and what kind of times we had. I
think the professional aspects are these
great tools that allow you to do more
meaningful things and the things that
count which [snorts] is what have you
done with your family? What have you
done with your friends? How have you
served others? What have you done to
leave a legacy of
uh
happiness and betterment and goodness to
the people that you've been privileged
enough to come in contact with? And when
I say legacy, I don't mean words. I mean
deeds. So what have you done that have
allowed other people to enjoy
and better their station in life, their
happiness in life for me? That's that's
the most significant thing by far and
away.
>> Do you always believe in God?
>> I have trouble at times. I mean, yes, I
do. But I mean, I you know, my faith is
tested like I think anybody faith is
tested. I wish I could say with 100%
certainty, I know I'm going to heaven. I
certainly pray every night. The most
important
aspect is, and the reason why I think
it's so important for us all to have God
in our lives is is you got to have some
set, some code by which you live. I
think Christianity, Judaism, a variety
of these have these wonderful doctrinary
ways of bringing stability and order and
goodness in people's lives. They give
you something that you can lead a
productive life with and and in a way
that's very sustainable and allows you
to uh again engage with everyone around
you with with great happiness and joy.
What about Africa?
>> I love Africa so much because I love the
outdoors. Can I just say this? It's
taken me 70 years to get this point. My
new new thing is I love to find peak
spring and peak fall. It doesn't have to
be Africa. You can find that day in a
neighborhood and in peak spring when the
colors are vibrant and when the
fragrance is just overwhelming. you can
find it to the minute in the right
place. And I've never felt so alive in
my life. I And I look for that. I'm I
now travel the United States for that
moment because I know when Peak Spring
is in Georgia. I know where Peak Spring
is uh in Tennessee and I know when it is
in New York City and I know when it is
north of New York City because New York
City's normally a week behind um this
place I go to in upstate. Same thing in
fall. There'll be a day where you get
the intersection and the northeast is
the best because it has the greatest
biodiversity where you see the greatest
color and you can see those color
changes by day by tree and you find that
day with that intersection of color
change. I'm telling you if you find that
day you can feel the energy. I've never
felt so alive. I you can you feel God at
those moments. It's such a wondrous
moment
as as you go through how life is
changing so fast and one in case of
spring obviously it's blooming in the
case of fall it's transitioning into a
more dormant period but they are so
energetic and so exciting and I highly
recommend people try to in their
neighborhood find that day boy make sure
you're walking that afternoon before
sunset oh my gosh it's a joy boy.
>> You've lived so much life in the years
that you've been with us, and I never
asked the question of general advice. I
think it's kind of a lame question, but
I'm tempted to close the conversation
there with what you would just tell
people listening that this audience is
passionate, they're curious, they're
searching for their thing or they're
trying to get to be the greatest at
their thing, they're competitive. What
would you tell them based on the sum
total of all your amazing life and
experience? My mother used to always
say, uh, and I think this is what this
country really needs right now. You've
just
got to kill them with kindness. So,
you're going to wake up someday it's
going to be terrible. You're going to be
in a bad mood. There's going to be
something on TV that's going to make you
angry. And particularly in these times
right now, my gosh, when everyone wants
to demonize the opposition, I think
we've got to realize it doesn't have to
be that way. We can humbly
uh devote ourselves to finding the
kindness within ourselves and the
goodness within ourselves
and transmit that to somebody else
during that day. I think that's I think
that's the secret to happiness. You
don't have to worry about yourself. You
have to worry about how am I going to
brighten someone else's day. And with
that attitude one, you'll always be
happy. I'm just going to spend this one
day doing this one outward act. And if
you repeat it enough, again, everything
is about the reps, right? Pretty soon,
you take I should and they will become I
ams. So if you take that mentality that
I want to
do this wonderful act of kindness for
someone else, pretty soon you become an
incredibly kind person. It becomes
natural. It becomes instinctive and
organic and it just it's going to
brighten your day and you'll have just
such a positive outlook on life. And I
think that's I think that's where we I
think that's what we need to
intentionally
begin to do uh every single person for
sure. It'll be a much better world.
>> Paul, thank you [music] so much for your
time.
>> Thank you.
>> Your finance team isn't losing money on
big mistakes. It's leaking through a
thousand tiny decisions nobody's
watching. Ramp puts guard [music] rails
on spending before it happens. Real-time
limits, automatic rules, zero
firefighting. Try it at ramp.com/invest.
[music]
As your business grows, Vant scales with
you, automating compliance and giving
you a single source of truth for
security [music] and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
and scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and [music] a
competitive edge. Visit
ridgelineapps.com
to see what they can unlock for your
firm.
Every investment firm is unique and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street,
connected to your data, understanding
your process, and producing real
outputs. Check them out at
rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to Cursor to Perplexity use work
OS to become enterprise ready overnight,
not in months. Visit works.com to skip
the unglamorous infrastructure work and
focus on your product.